---
title: "Scheduling in Millimeter-wave Integrated Access and Backhaul Networks"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/airs2023-IITB-talk
venue: "Electrical Engineering Department, IIT Bombay"
date: 2023-04-18
location: "Mumbai, MH, India."
---
This is a talk I had given during my research visit to India, that was funded by the AIRS fellowship. Prof. Sibiraj Pillai was my host for this trip.


**Abstract:** Scheduling in wireless networks is known to be a hard problem. Back-pressure algorithms were developed by Tassiulas and co-workers in the 1990s and these algorithms require the computation of a maximum weighted independent set in a graph which is NP Hard in general. In recent work, we have considered the problem of scheduling links in mmWave integrated access and backhaul (IAB) networks which can be modelled graphically by a tree. At the same time, there is an interesting twist in terms of constraints: we need to consider constraints on the number of RF chains in the IAB nodes as well as the half duplex constraints for the backhaul links. In this talk, we formulate the scheduling problem for IAB networks and present some distributed scheduling algorithms - one based on back-pressure, and a more distributed approach that we call local max-weight. Overall, we exploit the tree structure to obtain capacity-achieving algorithms where the complexity does not grow exponentially in the size of the network.

This talk is based on joint work with Stephen Hanly and Phil Whiting, Macquarie University.

[Download slides](https://swaroop-gopalam.github.io/files/India_Visit_Slides.pdf)

[Download paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9737293)

 